Add object-level image processing and multi-table handling through iceberg (#424)
cytomining/CytoTable: docs/source/tutorials/iceberg_warehouse_with_images.md

- Use it when you need cropped image payloads stored next to measurements for downstream analysis.
- Skip it if you only need the standard joined measurement table; the Parquet tutorial is simpler.
```

## Setup

Image crop export requires Python 3.11 or newer because the optional `ome-arrow`
dependency is only available on Python 3.11+.

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install "cytotable[iceberg-images]"
```

## Inputs and outputs

- **Measurement input:** a CellProfiler SQLite file or CSV folder
- **Image input:** a directory containing source TIFF files
- **Optional segmentation input:** directories containing mask or outline TIFF files
- **Output:** a new local Iceberg warehouse directory

## Basic warehouse export

This creates a materialized joined `joined_profiles` table in Iceberg.

```python
from cytotable import convert

warehouse_path = convert(
    source_path="./tests/data/cellprofiler/ExampleHuman",
    source_datatype="csv",
    dest_path="./example_warehouse",
    dest_backend="iceberg",
    dest_datatype="parquet",
    preset="cellprofiler_csv",
)

print(warehouse_path)
```

## Add image crops with OME-Arrow

> When `image_dir` is provided, CytoTable will process joined rows in chunks and append cropped image payloads into a separate `image_crops` table inside the warehouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user specifies an `image_dir`, CytoTable will use a temporary, intermediary directory to chunk single-cell joins and append cropped image payloads into a separate `image_crops` table inside the warehouse.
```

    },
)
```

The mapping uses:

- key: regex for segmentation filenames
- value: regex for the source image filename

## Reading the warehouse

CytoTable exposes small helpers for local Iceberg warehouses:

```python
from cytotable import (
    describe_iceberg_warehouse,
    list_iceberg_tables,
    read_iceberg_table,
)

print(list_iceberg_tables("./example_warehouse_with_images"))
print(describe_iceberg_warehouse("./example_warehouse_with_images"))

profiles = read_iceberg_table("./example_warehouse_with_images", "joined_profiles")
image_crops = read_iceberg_table("./example_warehouse_with_images", "image_crops")
profile_with_images = read_iceberg_table(
    "./example_warehouse_with_images", "profile_with_images"
)
```

## What success looks like

- the warehouse directory exists and contains Iceberg metadata/data files
- `joined_profiles` appears as a materialized table
- `image_crops` appears as a table only when `image_dir` was provided and crop rows were actually written
- `profile_with_images` appears as a saved view only when `image_crops` exists and contains rows
- `image_crops` rows include a stable `Metadata_ObjectID` derived from measurement keys and crop bounds

> - `image_crops` rows include a stable `Metadata_ImageCropID` derived from measurement keys, crop bounds, and the source image reference

Reviewer: what do you mean by "stable"?

> - `image_crops` rows include `ome_arrow_image` and optional `ome_arrow_label` payloads

Reviewer: what is a payload?

# Tutorial: Linking CellProfiler morphology features with single-cell image crops

The Apache ecosystem tool, Iceberg, builds a warehouse data structure to manage connections between single-cell features and OME-arrow image crops.

In this tutorial, you will see a start-to-finish walkthrough of using CytoTable to link CellProfiler measurements and cropped microscopy images.

## What you will accomplish

- Convert CellProfiler outputs (e.g., SQLite file) to an Iceberg warehouse instead of a single Parquet file (which is default CytoTable behavior).
- Using Iceberg, create a materialized `profiles.joined_profiles` table that

>   connects single-cell profiles to cropped images.

Author: Thanks!

- Optionally build a separate `images.image_crops` Iceberg table containing OME-Arrow image crops.
- Optionally build a separate `images.source_images` Iceberg table containing full OME-Arrow source images.
- Save a `profiles.profile_with_images` warehouse "view" that displays joined

>   profiles with image crops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Save a `profiles.profile_with_images` warehouse "view" that displays joined profiles with image crops.
```

Author: Thanks!

  `images.image_crops` for object-level references, rather than assigning them
  randomly
- CytoTable also deterministically generates `Metadata_ImageCropID` values
  unique to each crop row
- when both `outline_dir` and `mask_dir` produce a matching overlay for the
  same source image, CytoTable stores both and uses the outline for the
  generated `ome_arrow_label` overlay field

If you also want the original images stored in the warehouse:

```python
convert(
    source_path="./tests/data/cellprofiler/ExampleHuman",
    source_datatype="csv",
    dest_path="./example_warehouse_with_source_images",
    dest_backend="iceberg",
    preset="cellprofiler_csv",
    image_dir="./images",
    include_source_images=True,
)
```

The same pattern also works with cloud image paths, for example
`image_dir="s3://example-bucket/images"` plus any needed authentication or
client configuration arguments passed through `convert(..., **kwargs)`.

## Bounding boxes

CytoTable uses bounding box columns from the joined measurement rows to dynamically crop each image.
In the materialized `joined_profiles` table, the resolved bbox columns are

> normalized as `Metadata_SourceBBoxXMin`, `Metadata_SourceBBoxXMax`,

Author: Thanks!
